Subject: Census Day Is Here: It's Time to Respond

Census Day Is Here: It's Time to Respond

Help Shape Your Future and Your Community's Future

Today is Census Day, the day that determines who is counted in the 2020 Census and where they are counted. When completing the census, include everyone living in your home on April 1, 2020. You can respond online in one of 13 languages and find assistance in many more.

Respond Now

Responding to the census is important because it helps inform funding for key public services for your community like education programs and schools, hospitals and healthcare, roads and bridges, and emergency and disaster response.

38.4 percent of households across the nation have responded to the 2020 Census since invitations began arriving in mailboxes last month.

Here are some key resources to get started:

Quick Guide to Responding Online

Who to Count

See a List of Questions Asked

Language Support

Help us spread the word about the 2020 Census!

We have made it easy to tell everyone—your friends and family, your neighbors, and your co-workers—that you will complete the 2020 Census and why it's important that they respond too.

Share This

2020 Census Operational Updates

Based on continuing assessments of guidance from federal, state and local health authorities, the U.S. Census Bureau is suspending 2020 Census field operations for two additional weeks to April 15, 2020.

See Latest Updates

About the 2020 Census

The U.S. Constitution mandates a census of the population every 10 years. The 2020 Census will count everyone who lives in the U.S. as of April 1, 2020. Census statistics help determine the number of seats each state holds in the U.S. House of Representatives and how billions of dollars in federal funds will be allocated by state, local, and federal lawmakers every year for the next 10 years.

If you've already responded or no longer want to receive 2020 Census response reminders, click here and we'll remove you from future reminders.
