Subject: Census Bureau News: Tip Sheet # 24

TIP SHEET: TP19-24

DEC. 20, 2019

Upcoming

2019 Product Calendar — The U.S. Census Bureau has posted anticipated release dates for each regular and recurring statistical product scheduled for release in 2019. These products are listed in the Census Bureau’s online product calendar, ­which is updated as needed throughout the year.

2020 Census

2019 Census Test Final Report — The 2019 Census Test was a split panel test, with one panel receiving a citizenship question and the other not. Preliminary results from the 2019 Census Test were reported on October 31. A final report on the test will be released soon. (Scheduled for release in December.)

American Community Survey

ACS 5-Year PUMS — The U.S. Census Bureau will release the 2014-2018 American Community Survey Public Use Microdata Sample (PUMS) and the 2014-2018 variance replicate tables. The PUMS files provide a 5% sample of the U.S. population to users to create their own tabulations. The variance replicate tables allow users to calculate margins of error when aggregating data within a table or between geographies. (Scheduled for release Jan. 30.)

Demographic

National, State and Puerto Rico Population Estimates — The July 1, 2019, population estimates for the nation, states and Puerto Rico, as well as corresponding annual estimates and components of change since the 2010 Census will be available. (Scheduled for release Dec. 30.)

2020 New Year’s Day Population — The Census Bureau will ring in the new year with its annual projection of the nation’s population for Jan. 1, 2020. The release will include birth, death and net international migration rates, as well as a projection of the world population. (Scheduled for release Dec. 30.)

Custodial Mothers and Fathers and Their Child Support — The U.S. Census Bureau is scheduled to release the report, Custodial Mothers and Fathers and Their Child Support: 2016. The report includes demographic and income data about custodial parents and details child support income for custodial parents living below the poverty level. (Tentatively scheduled for release in January.)

Population Projections Update — The U.S. Census Bureau will be releasing several new and updated population projection reports that cover projected life expectancy by nativity, projected population by alternative migration scenarios and updated population projections by demographic characteristics. Supplemental data files for the alternative migration scenarios and input data sets for the main projections series are also being released. For more information on past projection reports, visit <www.census.gov/programs-surveys/popproj.html>. (Tentatively scheduled for release in January.)

Economic

The Economic Census Data Release — The U.S. Census Bureau will be releasing the first local area statistics from the 2017 Economic Census. Data will be released on a flow basis through November 2020 for all states and sub-geographies and all covered 2- through 6- digit NAICS codes. Visit the economic census website for the full release schedule. (Tentatively scheduled for release Jan. 9.)

Facts for Features

National African-American (Black) History Month: February — To commemorate and celebrate the contributions to our nation made by people of African descent, the Census Bureau presents a collection of demographic and economic statistics about the black community. (Tentatively scheduled for release in January.)

Women’s History Month: March 2020 — In commemoration of this annual observance highlighting and celebrating the varied and historic accomplishments of women, this edition provides statistical information on topics such as earnings, education, business ownership, voting, occupations, military service and marriage. (Tentatively scheduled for release in January.)

Irish-American Heritage Month (March) and St. Patrick’s Day (March 17) — You may not find a pot of gold at the end of this edition of Facts for Features but you will find it useful and informative nonetheless. It is filled with statistical information from the Census Bureau’s demographic and economic subject areas on the nation’s Irish-American population and other facets of this celebration of all things Irish. (Tentatively scheduled for release in January.)

Stats for Stories

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting the U.S. Census Bureau’s newsworthy statistics that relate to current events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media in story mining and producing content for their respective audiences.

National Hot Tea Month: January 2020

New Year’s Day: Jan. 1, 2020

National Milk Day: Jan. 11, 2020

National Pharmacist Day: Jan. 12, 2020

*Special Edition* 100th Anniversary of Prohibition (18th Amendment): Jan. 16, 2020

Popcorn Day: Jan. 19, 2020

Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: Jan. 20, 2020

Spouses Day: Jan. 26, 2020

Multimedia

Radio

Upcoming segments include annual reflections in “Old Acquaintance” (Dec. 30) and sucking it up in “Drinking Straws” (Jan. 3).

The daily features are available at <www.census.gov/library/audio/profile-america.html>. The menu options allow selection for Profile America, with download options for MP3 and WAV files or zip files for the entire month (MP3).

Recently Released

(Released since Dec. 6, 2019)

Federal Economic Statistics Advisory Committee — Dec. 13 — The Federal Economic Statistics Advisory Committee advises the Directors of the Department of Commerce’s statistical agencies, the Bureau of Economic Analysis and the U.S. Census Bureau, and the Commissioner of the Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics, on statistical methodology and other technical matters related to the collection, tabulation, and analysis of federal economic statistics.

New Updates to data.census.gov — Dec. 10 — Explore the latest updates to data.census.gov, the primary site to access data from the Census Bureau’s most popular surveys and programs. Join this webinar to see a live demonstration of our latest updates to prepare for the 2018 American Community Survey 5-Year data release.

2020 Census

2020 Research and Testing: 2017 Census Test Report - Tribal Enrollment — Dec. 20 — The Census Bureau conducted formal tribal consultations during 2015-2016 seeking input from tribal governments on a variety of topics, including testing a tribal enrollment question. The findings from the 2017 Census Test assessed the feasibility of collecting tribal enrollment data and are described only in terms of nonresponse and consistency. Concerns from external stakeholders - including tribal leaders - regarding collecting tribal enrollment in a census environment ultimately lead to the decision to not include any tribal enrollment questions in the 2020 Census.

Demographic

International Data Base 2019 Update — Dec. 18 —The U.S. Census Bureau updated demographic information for 23 countries in its International Data Base. Twelve of these countries are in Africa and the rest are in the Americas (5), the Middle East (3), Oceania (2) and Europe (1).

American Community Survey

American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates — Dec. 19 — The American Community Survey 5-year statistics, based on data collected from 2014 to 2018, cover all geographic areas regardless of size, down to the block-group level. The American Community Survey provides a wide range of important statistics about people and housing for every community in the nation. The survey is the only source of local statistics for most of the 40 topics it covers. It produces statistics for language, education, commuting, employment, mortgage status and rent, as well as income, poverty and health insurance.

Same-Sex Couple Households Table Package — Dec. 12 — This table package showing household characteristics of opposite-sex and same-sex couples has been updated with statistics from the 2018 American Community Survey. The tables show age of householder and partner, race of householder, interracial couples, labor force participation, educational attainment, presence of children, household income and home ownership. The statistics include the number of same-sex couples, including those reported as spouses and as unmarried partners by sex of the partners.

Demographic

2017 Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates — Dec. 12 — Available for 3,141 counties and 13,197 school districts, these statistics represent the only current, single-year income and poverty statistics available for all counties and school districts. Data are provided on the total number of people, as well as the number of school-age children and children of all ages in poverty.

Economic

Quarterly Summary of State and Local Government Tax Revenues: 3rd Quarter 2019 — Dec. 17 — The summary provides quarterly estimates of state and local government tax revenue at the national level, as well as detailed tax revenue data for individual states. This report produces three tables: Tables 1 and 2 include income and sales data and Table 3 provides tax collections by state.

Facts for Features

The 2019 Holiday Season — Oct. 30 —This festive season, or simply the holidays, is a time for gathering and celebrating with family and friends, gift-giving, reflection and giving thanks. To commemorate this time of year, the Census Bureau presents holiday-related facts and figures from its collection of statistics.

America Counts: Stories Behind the Numbers

America Counts tells the stories behind the numbers in a new, inviting way. We feature stories on various topics, such as families, housing, employment, business, education, the economy, emergency preparedness and population. New stories include:

The Up Side of Divorce? (Dec. 18, 2019)

Connecting with Partners: MARICOPA ASSOCIATION OF GOVERNMENTS (Dec. 16, 2019)

By 2030, All Baby Boomers Will Be Age 65 or Older (Dec. 10, 2019)

Stats for Stories

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting the Census Bureau’s newsworthy statistics that relate to current events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media in story mining and producing content for their respective audiences.

National Homeless Persons’ Memorial Day (1st Day of Winter): Dec. 21, 2019

Alabama 200th Anniversary (22nd state): Dec. 14, 2019

Wright Brothers Day: Dec. 17, 2019

Bill of Rights Day: Dec. 15, 2019

National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day: Dec. 7, 2019

Blogs

A Civic Digital Fellow Tackles State-of-the-Art Data Linkage Challenges — Written by: Maria Gargiulo, Civic Digital Fellow, U.S. Census Bureau — Dec. 18 — Civic Digital Fellows are hired every summer to work on specific projects being led by Census Bureau staff. The fellows are held to the same high standards expected of all Census Bureau employees and are sworn to protect confidentiality and privacy. Maria was hired to work on the Census Bureau’s 2020 Administrative Records Project. In this blog, she discusses her experience as a fellow and her work on that project.

Why the Census Bureau Is Establishing a “Trust & Safety” Team — Written By: Dr. Ron S. Jarmin, Deputy Director and Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Census Bureau — Dec. 17 — The 2020 Census is a nationwide count of all people living in the United States that occurs only once every 10 years. At the U.S. Census Bureau, we are devoting great resources, energy and passion to educating the public about the upcoming 2020 Census. We are joined in our efforts by thousands of partners, supporters and stakeholders across the country, including state, local and tribal governments; schools; places people worship; faith-based groups and community organizations; businesses; and others.

The ABCs of Mode of Transportation — Written By: Edgard Almodovar, Trade Data Collection Branch, Puerto Rico Trade Data — Dec. 11 — It can be tricky to file Electronic Export Information in the Automated Export System. But it’s easier than you think, thanks to simple data elements like mode of transportation. According to the Federal Trade Regulations, mode of transportation (MOT) is “the method by which goods are exported from the United States by way of seaports, airports or land border crossing points. Methods of transportation include vessel, air, truck, rail, mail, or other.”

Multimedia

Radio

Profile America segments include the professional balance sheet in “Full Accounting” (Dec. 11) and a Christmas classic in “A Dickensian Tale” (Dec. 17). Internet address: <www.census.gov/library/audio/profile-america.html>.

Resources

Learn What Surveys Are Being Conducted in Your Community — See which of our 130-plus annual surveys are being conducted in your community. In a variety of surveys and censuses, evolving from the first census in 1790, the U.S. Census Bureau provides official information about America’s people, businesses, industries and institutions. See surveys currently being conducted in each Census Bureau region:

Atlanta

Chicago

Denver

Los Angeles

New York

Philadelphia

All Surveys

Data Tools

See below for a few of the U.S. Census Bureau’s interactive applications to access statistics from our 130-plus annual surveys. Click here for a complete list.

Job-to-Job Flows Explorer (Beta) — Analyze the Job-to-Job Flows (J2J) data through interactive charts, maps and tables.

My Tribal Area — Access selected statistics collected for the American Indian and Alaska Native (AIAN) population from the American Community Survey (ACS).

PSEO Explorer — Visualize the experimental Post-Secondary Employment Outcomes (PSEO) data through interactive bar charts and Sankey diagrams.

Training Opportunities

Census Bureau Training Opportunities — Webinars are available on a regular basis to help the public access and use U.S. Census Bureau statistics. These free sessions, lasting 60 to 90 minutes, show how to use Census Bureau databases and mapping tools and find demographic and economic statistics at a local or national level.

Descriptions for each of the upcoming sessions is available on our Census Academy page. Login details will be provided at least one week before a webinar.

Trade, Policy Actions and Resources for Metals and Critical Minerals (Thursday, Jan. 16, 2-3 p.m., EST)

Archived Training Resources — Visit the U.S. Census Bureau’s Educational Resource Library for previously recorded trainings that are free and available at your convenience. The library includes presentations, recorded webinars, tutorials and other helpful materials.

###

Learn More

Resources for the Media

We're here to help you get the most out of our tipsheets, press releases, trainings, and media services. If you have a question, give us a call at 301-763-3030 or contact our Public Information Office at pio@census.gov.

Share This
