Subject: Released Today: 2020 Income, Poverty, and Health Insurance

Released Today: 2020 Income, Poverty, and Health Insurance

The U.S. Census Bureau announced today that median household income in 2020 decreased 2.9% between 2019 and 2020, and the official poverty rate increased 1.0 percentage point. Meanwhile the percentage of people with health insurance coverage for all or part of 2020 was 91.4%. An estimated 8.6% of people, or 28.0 million, did not have health insurance at any point during 2020, according to the 2021 Current Population Survey Annual Social and Economic Supplement (CPS ASEC).

Read More

America Counts: Stories Behind the Numbers

Who Was Lifted Out of Poverty by Stimulus Payments?

The more than $400 billion in two rounds of stimulus payments the government distributed during the pandemic helped lift 11.7 million people out of poverty in 2020, according to the Supplemental Poverty Measure (SPM) released today.

Read More

Did Unemployment Insurance Lower Official Poverty Rates in 2020?

Unemployment insurance (UI) benefits lowered the overall poverty rate by 1.4 percentage points to 11.4% in 2020 and decreased poverty across all racial groups and all age groups, according to U.S. Census Bureau data released today (differences due to rounding). Without unemployment insurance, 4.7 million more people would have been in poverty and the overall poverty rate would have been 12.9% in 2020.

Read More

Workers’ Earnings Decline Overall During Pandemic but Increase for Full-Time, Year-Round Workers

Income statistics released by the U.S. Census Bureau today show a 2.9% decline in median household income between 2019 and 2020 and a 1.2% decline in the median earnings of all workers. But during the same period, real median earnings of full-time, year-round workers increased 6.9%. Understanding why earnings for full-time, year-round workers could go up while earnings overall declined requires a deeper dive into who lost their jobs.

Read More

Uninsured Rates for Children in Poverty Increased 2018–2020

In 2020, 4.3 million children under the age of 19 — 5.6% of all children — were without health coverage for the entire calendar year, according to a report released today. While this was not statistically different from the percentage of children who were uninsured in 2018, a closer analysis reveals that the changes in uninsured status between 2018 and 2020 affected children in poverty more than those living above the poverty level.

Read More

Private Health Coverage of Working-Age Adults Drops From Early 2019 to Early 2021

Private health insurance coverage declined for working-age adults ages 19 to 64 from early 2019 to early 2021, when the nation experienced the COVID-19 pandemic.

A report released today primarily examines health insurance coverage in the United States in calendar year 2020.

However, the Current Population Survey Annual Social and Economic Supplement also measures current coverage, or health insurance coverage held at the time of the survey interview.

Read More

Understanding Equity Through Census Bureau Data

With today’s release of income, poverty, and health insurance coverage statistics, the U.S. Census Bureau adds to the voluminous amount of data previously released that help to measure topics related to equity.

These data show how different segments of the population are making gains or are impacted by the pandemic or the recent economic recession.

Read more about inequality measures, poverty measures, gender equity, health insurance coverage, education, wealth, homeownership, community resilience, and research.

Read More

Upcoming Releases and Observances

National Small Business Week: We're celebrating the contributions of America’s entrepreneurs and small business owners across the country.

Hispanic Heritage Month: September 15 - October 15

Census Bureau Delivers 2020 Census Redistricting Data in Easier-to-Use Format: September 16, 2021

Small Business Pulse Survey Phase 6 Weekly Data Release, 2019 Survey of Income and Program Participation, Economic Indicators, and more: September 16, 2021

Blog: Transitions in Health Insurance Coverage: A Look Inside Annual Health Coverage Statistics

Annual estimates of health coverage from the Current Population Survey Annual Social and Economic Supplement (CPS ASEC) highlighted in the report Health Insurance Coverage in the United States: 2020 paint a broad picture of the nation’s health care landscape.

Read More

Blog: How Did the Pandemic Affect Survey Response?

In its new report, Income and Poverty in the United States: 2020, the U.S. Census Bureau provides estimates of the distribution of household and personal income and poverty. We collected data for this report (and the accompanying microdata and summary tables) in February, March and April of each year as part of the Current Population Survey Annual Social and Economic Supplement (CPS ASEC).

Read More

Help us spread the word about Census Bureau data.

Share this newsletter on social media or forward it to a friend.

Share This

About the Census Bureau

We serve as the nation’s leading provider of quality data about its people and economy. The Census Bureau is the federal government's largest statistical agency. We are a scientific organization focused on data. Policy-makers, businesses, and the public use our information to make far-reaching decisions.
