Subject: Don’t Let Your Students Go Uncounted

Classrooms Powered by Census Data

Statistics in Schools brings school subjects to life using real-world Census Bureau data to create materials for use year after year at all grade levels.

Don’t Let Your Students Go Uncounted

There’s still time to respond to the 2020 Census, but that time is running out. Use our 2020 Census Statistics in Schools (SIS) activities and our at-home resources for parents and caregivers to reinforce the importance of this once-a-decade count. Don’t let your students miss out on their chance to be counted.

Consider doing the following:

Refamiliarize yourself with the 2020 resources SIS has to offer for your grade level and pick out the ones you’ll use with your students when the school year begins. These free resources spotlight the 2020 Census and the importance of counting everyone, especially children. All the activities were designed by teachers and can be used with existing lesson plans.

Direct parents and caregivers to our Home and Distance Learning Activities page, where they will find toolkits with instructions for adapting SIS activities for at-home use.

Send the K-12 take-home flyer to students’ homes. Available in English and 12 additional languages, it explains to adults the importance of the 2020 Census and how to count every child in their home on the census.

In all your communications, encourage the adults in your students’ homes to complete the 2020 Census today at my2020census.gov. There has never been a better time to make a difference for your students and your community.

Get Free Resources

Help us spread the word about Statistics in Schools. Share this on social media or forward it to a friend.

Share This

About Statistics in Schools

We provide more than 100 activities that you can use to enhance and invigorate learning in many subjects. New activities, designed specifically for the 2019-2020 school year, spotlight the 2020 Census and the importance of making sure everyone is counted, especially children.
