Subject: ODEP News Brief - November 6, 2020

November 6, 2020

Benefits and Costs of Accommodations

The Job Accommodation Network (JAN) published the "Accommodation and Compliance: Low Cost, High Impact" study. JAN conducts this study annually with employers who contact JAN for specific information about workplace accommodations, the Americans with Disabilities Act, or both. Results show that 56% of accommodations are made at no cost. Participating employers said that providing accommodations allowed them to retain valuable employees, improve productivity and morale, reduce workers' compensation and training costs, and improve company diversity.

Read "Accommodation and Compliance: Low Cost, High Impact"

Customer Satisfaction Study

The U.S. Department of Labor's Chief Evaluation Office and the Office of Disability Employment Policy (ODEP) released the "Office of Disability Employment Policy Technical Assistance Centers Customer Satisfaction Evaluation." This study determined how well external customers are satisfied with the technical assistance provided by ODEP's Job Accommodation Network and Employer Assistance and Resource Network on Disability Inclusion. ODEP conducted semi-structured telephone interviews with customers and staff from the two technical assistance centers and reviewed data on customer satisfaction and service use. The study includes a final report and two issue briefs.

Read the "Office of Disability Employment Policy Technical Assistance Centers Customer Satisfaction Evaluation" report and issue briefs

Accessible Data Visualizations

The Partnership on Employment & Accessible Technology released "7 Tips to Make Your Data Visualizations Accessible." This resource guides designing accessible graphic representations of data, also known as data visualizations, for website users with sensory, cognitive, and physical disabilities.

Read "7 Tips to Make Your Data Visualizations Accessible"

SSI Youth Solutions

The Office of Disability Employment Policy selected proposals for the SSI Youth Solutions initiative to identify potential ways to improve employment for young adults ages 14 to 24 who apply for or receive Supplemental Security Income (SSI). Subject matter experts provided innovative strategies, including legislative, regulatory, and policy changes, to increase labor force participation and economic success among these youth. SSI Youth Solutions builds on the findings of the "SSI Youth Recipient and Employment Transition Formative Research" project, which produced several reports, issue briefs, and webinars.

Read the proposals for the SSI Youth Solutions initiative

Review the "SSI Youth Recipient and Employment Transition Formative Research" project reports, issue briefs, and webinars

U.S. Conference of Mayors NDEAM Webinar

The U.S. Conference of Mayors' Workforce Development Council and the State Exchange on Employment & Disability (SEED) hosted a webinar celebrating the 75th anniversary of National Disability Employment Awareness Month (NDEAM). Panelists from the New York City Mayor's Office for People with Disabilities, Tempe's BEST Employment Supports and Training Program, and the State of Colorado Disability Employment Initiative shared how cities are supporting individuals with disabilities during COVID-19. Members of the SEED team presented sample proclamations, policy options, strategies, and other resources that state and local governments can use to commemorate NDEAM and promote greater opportunities for individuals with disabilities in the workplace. To view the webinar, use passcode *6H1pw?R.

View the webinar using passcode *6H1pw?R

HIRE Vets Medallion Awards

The U.S. Department of Labor will host the 2020 HIRE Vets Medallion Awards ceremony on November 10 at 1:00 p.m. ET. This virtual event will recognize job creators who demonstrate a strong commitment to hiring and retaining veterans.

Register for the HIRE Vets Medallion Awards ceremony

Click here to view this newsletter on our website

ODEP Home Page

Contact Us
