Subject: DEEOIC Webinar Series – Resource Center Responsibilities and Authorized Representative Services, October 14, 2020

DEEOIC Program and Policy Update
Subscribe to this newsletter

October 1, 2020

U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Division of Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation, 200 Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC 20210

Web: www.dol.gov/agencies/owcp/energy Email: deeoic-public@dol.gov Phone: 1-866-888-3322

DEEOIC Webinar Series – Resource Center Responsibilities and Authorized Representative Services

October 14, 2020
2:00 – 3:30 p.m. ET

Register Here!

The Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Division of Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation (DEEOIC) invites you to a webinar on Resource Center Responsibilities and Authorized Representative Services.

This is your opportunity to hear from representatives at DEEOIC and the Office of the Solicitor. They will discuss the roles of Resource Centers and authorized representatives in the claims adjudication process under the EEOICPA. The webinar will conclude with answers to your questions. You can submit questions during the webinar or in advance at DEEOIC-Outreach@dol.gov.

The presentation will cover:

Resource Center Responsibilities

Role of Authorized Representatives

Operating Status

Claimant/Authorized Representative Assistance

Outreach

Provider Assistance

Occupational History Questionnaire Interviews

Customer Service

Authority and Length of Appointment

Conflict of Interest

Representative Fees

Privacy Act Waivers

Moderators/Presenters

Joshua Novack
BOTA Chief, DEEOIC

Daniel Povich
Office of the Solicitor

The Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act provides lump-sum compensation and medical benefits to current and former nuclear weapons workers whose illness is a result of working in the nuclear weapons industry. Survivors of qualified workers may also be entitled to benefits. Covered illnesses include radiation-induced cancer, chronic beryllium disease, beryllium sensitivity, chronic silicosis, or any illness due to exposure to toxic substances.

Follow us on Twitter | Subscribe to the DOL Newsletter | Send Feedback

U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC 20210
www.dol.gov | Telephone: 1-866-4-USA-DOL (1-866-487-2365) | TTY | Contact Us
