Subject: Notice to EEOICPA Claimants Regarding OWCP's New Workers’ Compensation Medical Bill Processing System

DEEOIC Program and Policy Update
Subscribe to this newsletter

March 2020

U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Division of Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation, 200 Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC 20210

Web: www.dol.gov/owcp/energy/ Email: deeoic-public@dol.gov Phone: 1-866-888-3322

You are receiving this email because you subscribed to DEEOIC's Program and Policy Updates.

Notice to EEOICPA Claimants Regarding OWCP's New Workers’ Compensation Medical Bill Processing System

On April 27, 2020, the Department of Labor's Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP) will launch its new Workers' Compensation Medical Bill Processing (WCMBP) system. Claimants who are approved for medical benefits under the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act (EEOICPA) should take note of the following changes and requirements:

Beginning April 27, 2020, there will be a new mailing address for our Central Mailroom. Please send all correspondence and exhibits in support of your claim to the new address located at:

U.S. Department of Labor
DEEOIC Central Mailroom
PO Box 47050
San Antonio, TX 78265

Correspondence submitted to our mailroom will continue to be electronically imaged and associated with each case and/or billing record. Be sure to write your Last Name and Case ID Number on the top right-hand corner of all correspondence. Remember, do not send original documents such as certified birth certificates, death certificates, marriage certificates with a raised seal, or original pictures, as DEEOIC will not be returning these documents.

Mail addressed to our former mailroom will be forwarded to the new address until May 31, 2020.

You may still use the online Energy Document Portal at https://eclaimant.dol-esa.gov/portal when submitting evidence in support of your claim.

Additionally, beginning April 27, 2020, there will be a new mailing address for our medical bill processing contractor. The new mailing address for medical bills will be:

Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program
PO Box 34930
San Antonio, TX 78265

Claimants who have been approved for medical benefits under the EEOICPA will receive Notification Letters and new Medical Benefits Identification cards (MBIC). However, your benefits are not changing and all medical services will continue to be paid based on the OWCP fee schedule. The MBIC card lists your Name and Case ID Number. It also includes a statement that no co-pay or deductible is required for services rendered. Please remember to bring your new MBIC card to your appointments; your medical provider must include your Case ID Number from this card with his or her bill payment request. You can destroy your old cards after April 27, 2020.

Beginning April 27, 2020, you can view your accepted conditions, status of submitted bills, authorization requests, and covered medical services associated with your claim by visiting the following website https://owcpmed.dol.gov.

If you have any questions regarding medical bills, call toll-free at 1-866-272-2682. The hours of operation are 8:00 a.m. – 8:00 p.m. (Eastern Time). Pharmacy questions can be directed to 1-866-664-5581.

If currently enrolled, your medical provider will receive an Outreach Letter approximately 30 – 40 days before the WCMBP system goes live. This letter will deliver give your medical provider information about the upcoming system launch.

Your medical provider will also receive a separate Welcome/Registration Letter approximately two weeks before the WCMBP system goes live. The welcome letter will tell your provider how to register for access to the WCMBP system.

Pharmacy Services: Conduent our current bill processing agent will only provide OWCP pharmacy bill processing services and will be utilizing a new website address starting April 27, 2020, and a new mailing address. Effective immediately, DEEOIC Pharmacy providers should begin using the new PO Boxes. We highly recommend transitioning to the new PO Box addresses as soon as possible. Any submitted pharmacy provider bills/correspondence sent to the old DEEOIC Central Mailroom PO Boxes after April 17, 2020, will be returned unprocessed.

DEEOIC Pharmacy bills should be mailed to: Department of Labor Pharmacy Bill Processing, DEEOIC
PO Box 8310
London, KY 40742-8310

More information about DEEOIC and this change:

You can refer to https://prod.wcmbp.com/outreach for information about the transition. This link will be available until April 24, 2020.

You can obtain general information regarding DEEOIC by visiting our website at https://www.dol.gov/owcp/energy/

Follow us on Twitter | Subscribe to the DOL Newsletter | Send Feedback

U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC 20210
www.dol.gov | Telephone: 1-866-4-USA-DOL (1-866-487-2365) | TTY | Contact Us
