Subject: A Community Toolkit for Addressing Health Misinformation from the Office of the Surgeon General

OES@100 Resources

OES celebrated completing 100 collaborations across government on November 16, 2021.

Resources include:

Event page

Event recording

Blog: Lessons learned from 100 collaborations

Event materials packet

Event presentation

GSA to Build Evidence to Advance Equitable Outcomes through the American Rescue Plan

OES will undertake a portfolio of evaluations with agency partners to better understand how to improve awareness, access, and allocation of American Rescue Plan (ARP) programs and resources, focusing on ARP programs with equity goals.

These evaluations will be led by OES Fellows - apply now to join OES and support this work! You can read more about this latest initiative here.

General Fellowships: Due Monday, January 3, 2022

Federal Details: Due Monday, January 3, 2022

Please share this announcement with your colleagues and send any questions to oes@gsa.gov.

Now Hiring: GSA Evaluation Specialists

GSA is recruiting for two evaluation specialists (applications open through Dec 20th). These individuals will play a key role helping GSA deliver on its Annual Evaluation Plan targets, and help design and implement large scale evaluations across GSA.

We're particularly seeking accomplished evaluators who are interested in working on GSA priorities. Read more here.

Please help us spread the word! Applications due Monday, December 20, 2021

https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/625328600

https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/625330900

Lessons Learned from the OES Portfolio on Equity & Small Business Recovery

OES presented our portfolio of evaluations with the Small Business Administration (SBA) at our recent event, OES@100. These evaluations focused on how city governments distributed COVID-19 relief to small businesses and lessons learned in order to increase equal access to these resources. Recent project results include:

How Documentation Burdens Affect the Equitable Distribution of Small Business Relief Funding

Evaluation of Dallas Small Business Continuity Fund

Evaluation of San Diego Small Business Relief Fund

Synthesis of challenges and opportunities for pursuing equitable distribution of small business relief

Lessons Learned on Equity & Small Business Recovery

Community Toolkit for Addressing Health Misinformation

OES experts supported the development of a toolkit from the Office of the Surgeon General, to provide information and exercises to slow the spread of health misinformation. The toolkit gives five tips for community leaders and individuals interested in learning about how to talk to others who are sharing misinformation:

Listen to people’s fears and why they believe what they do.

Empathize with the fact that there are often reasons why people find it difficult to trust certain sources of information.

Point to credible sources who are not in a position to personally profit or to gain power or influence.

Don’t publicly shame and have conversations one on one, either face to face or via direct messages on social media sites.

Use inclusive language that makes it clear that you see yourself being impacted in the same way.

Health Misinformation Toolkit
