Subject: Changes Related to Shortfin Mako Sharks

September 27, 2019

New Requirements Related to Shortfin Mako Beginning November 26, 2019

On August 28, 2019, the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) added shortfin mako sharks to Appendix II of CITES.

This means that, as of November 26, 2019, you will need specific permits from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) to import, export, or re-export shortfin mako sharks. Additionally, fishermen who catch shortfin mako sharks on the high seas will also need a permit if that shortfin mako shark is going to be landed.

More information on how CITES works for sharks is provided at the link below.

How will dealers be affected?

If you are a dealer and you plan to engage in international trade of shortfin mako sharks (e.g., importing, exporting, or re-exporting), including the parts and products of this species, you will need to apply for and obtain appropriate CITES documents.

Please note, imports of specimens of CITES species must:

Have proper documentation.

Be brought into ports designated by USFWS.

CITES species caught on the high seas must be landed in a USFWS designated port with proper documentation. A list of designated ports can be found at www.fws.gov/le/designated-port-exception-permit.html.

Will this affect fishermen?

Possibly. Fishermen fishing in state waters or within the U.S. EEZ do not need to do anything. However, fishermen who catch shortfin mako sharks on the high seas will need to obtain an Introduction from the Sea Certificate before landing the shark. An application for this certificate can be found at www.fws.gov/international/pdf/permit-application-form-3-200-31-introduction-from-the-sea.pdf.

Additionally, landing of shortfin mako sharks caught on the high seas is considered an import and must be landed in a designated port. A list of designated ports can be found at www.fws.gov/le/designated-port-exception-permit.html.

When will this go into effect?

This will become effective November 26, 2019.

Does this affect product I have now?

Yes. If you currently have any shortfin mako sharks, including shortfin mako shark fins, that were landed before November 26, 2019, you MUST obtain a Pre-Convention Certificate before you can export that product. That certificate must show that the sharks were landed and/or obtained before the November 26, 2019, implementation date.

To apply for a Pre-Convention Certificate, visit www.fws.gov/forms/3-200-23.pdf.

How do I get a CITES permits?

An explanation of the overall CITES permitting process can be found at www.fws.gov/international/permits/by-species/sharks-and-rays.html.

Questions?

Email: managementauthority@fws.gov.

Phone: 1 (800) 358-2104 toll-free within the United States or +1 (703) 358-2104 outside the United States.

Visit our Website

Subscribe to Atlantic HMS News
